What to Turn In

You must turn in a pull request containing the following:

1. A copy of the output directory for the tag counter running locally (name the directory 'out').
2. A copy of the output from S3 for the tag counter running on AWS (name the directory 'emr-out').
3. How long did it take to run the process for each of these?
  commoncrawl:
  processed_pages: 42040
  processed_records: 129958

running locally
  real	2m10.542s
  user	2m6.372s
  sys	0m5.047s
  (Elapsed real (wall clock) time used by the process, in seconds.  
  Total number of CPU-seconds that the process used directly (in user mode), in seconds.
  Total number of CPU-seconds used by the system on behalf of the process (in kernel mode), in seconds.)
running on AWS 
  real	13m10.305s
  user	0m1.374s
  sys	0m0.334s
  
4. How many address tags are there in the input?
2955+2185=5140
1767

5. Does the local version and EMR version give the same answer?


Please submit the answers to 3-5 in a text file called answers.txt


Getting Started

This assignment will step you through the process of running a simple computation over a data set 
using Map/Reduce via mrjob. The goal of the assignment is to have you walk through the process of 
using git, github, python, mrjob, and AWS and ensure you are setup with all the various tools and services.

Tasks

Part 1

Note: Keep track of the time necessary to run the process locally. 
For Linux/Mac users, you can use the time command to compute this.

Follow the instructions at https://github.com/alexmilowski/data-science/tree/master/activities/common-crawl 
to get setup with the tools and code.
Run the process locally on your computer.

Part 2

Follow the process for running the tag counter on AWS EMR.
Download the output from S3.


How to Turn in Assignments

Setup

You'll need to create a repository for your assignments. 
You can request a discount as a student so that you can have a private repository. 
Otherwise, all your assignments will be publically accessible.

Once you've setup your repository, you'll want to add your instructor as a collaborator. 
That way they can merge your pull requests when they are graded.

The Process

Create a branch of your repository for the homework and make your changes in that branch.
Commit and push your changes to the branch.
Create a pull request for the code you'd like to turn in.
Your instructor can now view the pull request and grade the assignment.
Once your instructor has graded the assignment, they can merge the pull request as a final notification.
You can now delete the branch as the changes have been merged with the master.
